# Week 6 Journal Entry

**Instructions**: In your journal.md for this week, share the results of your explorations. Also, think about this: Digital history is a process of encountering a body of information that suggests a question or two to you and then cycling back to that body of information to better understand the question (we haven’t even got to an answer yet!). In so doing, you’ll discover that the information is messy, or in the not-quite-right format. 80% of our time, as digital historians, is just getting things into shape for us to begin our exploration! Reflect on Michelle Moravec’s own cycle of exploration and what that might imply for yours.

In this week's journal, I urge you to really read through my notes.md file in the week 6 repository (**The 'Final Task' section**), as I heavily reflected and broke down each step I did when exploring my chosen data. I attempted to be very thourough through every step and really reflect how and why I was doing what I was doing. This approach was heavily inspired by Michelle Moravec's discovery process. Much like her (but on a smaller scale), I collected all my data, organized and cleaned the files as well as I could, attempted to analyze the information to uncover any patterns or hidden stories, then re-organized keeping my new context of the data in mind and then finally tried my best to represent the narrative in an interesting, refreshing and informational way! I did all this by using the various tools at my disposal that I was able to familiarize myself with over the last 5 weeks. Throughout the various steps I followed to work with the data, I found myself learning more about Claire Eva Paine and her life, as well as understanding the people, stories and settings she would write about in her journal. By taking the time to read through her journal and analyze various topics she concentrated on, I was able to discover a whole unexpected narrative that I would have never guessed existed upon first (or even second) glance.  

One might have assumed that I would attempt to present information regarding Claire Paine's life as it was her thoughts I was exploring. When in reality, I stumbled across countless recountings of letters to,from and her nephew, Tom, during the "collecting and cleaning" stages of this final assignment. In fact, he was the most mentioned major "topic" in her diary. Through constant letters, phone calls, telegrams and limited visits, Claire's diary essentially tracked this man's life throughout the entirety of 1942, a year when he enlisted with the US Marines and travelled all across the US to partake in trainings. It was then that I was inspired to focus on his life, rather than hers. It was evident she cared deeply for Tom, as she offered very detailed accounts of each place he would go to or send a letter to her from. After exploring the available data even further with tools such as Voyant, TmTool and Antconc, I noticed the heavy emphasis on locations. I learned that as a Marine trainee, Tom traveled quite a bit across the US. A venture such as his would be really interestig to be mapped out... and I decided to use StoryMaps.js to do so! Once I had my idea, I attempted to narrow down which letters I included in the narrative to create a compelling and accurate representation of his life in 1942, as told by Claire Eva Paine.

Overall, creating this presentation was quite an adventure. I struggled with something our class looked at earlier in the course: which data to keep and which to include. There were some days when there would be no letter, but she would simply state she knew Tom was at a new location, or days when letters would arrive for a few weeks but he wasn't moving locations just checking in. I wanted my audience to feel a narrative wa present but not completely overwhelm them with "useless information". I felt I cut down alot of letters and diary entries, but attempted to keep the ones that allowed more insight into WHO exactly Tom was, even if it didn't exactly continue the "map's journey" (Even so there is close to 40 points so I am nsure how successful I was). 

I wanted this Story Map to include more than just images of the diary. On certain days I attempted to find photographs that would somehow relate to Claire's diary entry and add abit more context to some of her statements. Whether that was maps of where he was situated, official documents, pages of research books, old photogroahs from the 1940s or even a picture of an object she mentioned in her diary. I wanted to add abit more contextual support to some of the entries to make the viewer feel more immersed in the narrative. Through this expirience, I learned more than I ever could have imagined. When I stumbled across something from her era (slang, a movie, music, a term, etc) that I was unfamiliar with, I would do a small bit of research to learn more and find an interesting piece of media to attach to the point. Of course if I was much better at researching, and if I knew more about the map software as well as had some more time, I would have liked to used more credible and related peices of mixed media (radio clips, news paper articles, archived documents, etc) for the points. In my dream scenerio I would have loved to actually find reccords about the people mentioned in her diary, but that is a little above my skillset for now!  

In conclusion, I am very happy with my final product and so proud of myself for getting the job done. I really pushed myself when working with the data, I took my time to learn its ins and outs or hidden storys and uncovered a really interesting narrative that I allowed myself to expand on. Most of all, I really loved learning the inner workings of an average family's lives from a different era. I honestly was not expecting to become so captivated by the narrative I disovered or the people I learned about but I found myself very involved and interested in every aspect of this final assignment. I feel like I especially learned alot about the marines in the early 1940s. Last week in yor feedback you asked what type of "historical content" was I interested in? I think I learned I like following the mundane, familial stories and learning more about how the average person lived in a personal context. I would love to expand on this project one day, or attempt something similar in the future.
